/***
 * SOPE Unix Man Pages
 *
 * Bruno Carvalho
 *
 */

$$ Unix Manual Section - man COMMAND $$

Access through man man.

man is the system's manual pager.
Each page argument given to man is normally the name of a PROGRAM, UTILITY, FUNCTION.
The manual page associated with each of these arguments is then found and displayed.
A section, if provided, will direct man to look only in that section of the manual.
The default action is to search in all of the available sections following a
pre-defined order ("1  n 1 8 3 2 3posix 3pm 3perl 5 4 9 6 7" by default), and to show
only the first page found, even if page exists in several sections.


	The standard section of the manual include:

	0		Header files
	0p		Header files (POSIX)
	1 		User Commands (Executable programs or shell commands)
	1p		User Commands (POSIX)
	2		System Calls (functions provided by the kernel)
	3		Library Functions (functions within program libraries)
	3n		Network Functions
	3p 		Perl Modules
	4		Devices and Special Files (usually found in /dev)
	5		File Formats and Conventions (e.g. /etc/passwd)
	6		Games et. al.
	7		Miscellanea (including macro packages and conventions)
	8		System Administration tools (usually only for root)
	9		Kernel routines (Non standard)
	l 		Local documentation
	n 		New Manpages

	Distributions customize the manual section to their specifics,
	which often include additional sections.

Conventional section names include:
	NAME
	SYNOPSYS
	CONFIGURATION
	DESCRIPTION
	OPTIONS
	EXIT STATUS
	RETURN VALUE
	ERRORS
	ENVIRONMENT
	FILES
	VERSION
	CONFORMING TO
	NOTES
	BUGS
	EXAMPLE
	AUTHORS
	SEE ALSO



$ Man Examples $

	man ls
		Display the first found manual page for the item (program) ls.

	man -a intro
		Display, in succession, all of the available intro manual pages contained
		within the manual. It is possible to quit between successive displays or
		skip any of them.

	man -k printf
		Search the short descriptions and manual page names for the keyword printf
		as regular expression. Print out any matches.

	man -f smail
		Lookup the manual pages referenced by smail and print otu the short descriptions
		of any found. Equivalent to whatis small.



$ Man Options $
	
	-f, --whatis
		Equivalent to whatis. Display a short description from the manual page,
		if available. See whatis(1) for details.

	-k, --apropos
		Equivalent to apropos. Search the short manual page descriptions for keywords
		and display any matches. See apropos(1) for details.

	-K, --global-apropos
		Search for text in all manual pages. This is a brute-force search, and is
		likely to take some time; if you can, you should specify a section to reduce
		the number of pages that need to be searched. Search terms may be simple strings,
		the default, or regex if the --regex options is used.

	-w, --where, --path, --location
		Do not actually display the manual pages, but print the locations of the
		source files that would be formatted.

	-W, --where-cat, --location-cat
		Do not actually display the manual pages, but print the location of the cat
		manual pages that would be displayed.

	-a, --all
		By default, man will exit after displaying the most suitable manual page
		it finds. This forces man to display all the manual pages with names that
		match the search criteria, successively.

	-?, --help
		Print a help message and exit.

	--usage
		Print a short usage message and exit.

	-V, --version
		Display version information.


See also: info (GNU)